README.md, before:

RC Mod API - RCMA
===========
This is a basic implementation of a modding API that allows mods to register themselves as listeners for events. Those
events are then sent to all mods that were loaded. Data from the event is passed to the mod for it to process if needed.

# Installation
## Manual
Copy `hookdispatcher.js` and `19.js` into the `Rising Constellation/dist/main` directory. You will need to replace your
existing `19.js` file.

## Vortex
Vortex is not yet supported, though support is being worked on.

## API

### Update
`update(data)` - sent whenever the game received an update from the RC server. Things like player updates, navarchs sighted,
 a building finished construction, system explored, etc.

The input is a sometimes large JSON. All of them follow this basic format,
```json
{
 "type":"incr_update",
 "instance":2762,
 "data":
  {
   "player_notifs":
    [
     {
      "data":{},
      "key":"",
      "type":"text",
      "timestamp":1652028161478
     }
    ]
  }
}
```

The mod will automatically create the outer field `type`, which defines the payload sent as an incremental update. For 
this API, it will always be `incr_update`. `instance` is the instance ID of the game and is unique for each game. `data`
is what the game actually sent to the client and is stuffed into this field. All the fields within `data` will vary
depending on what kind of event was sent, but most of them seem to have a `data` field, `type`, and `timestamp`. 

Examples of inputs from real games are below.

Another player bought your offer:
```json
{"type":"incr_update","data":{"player_notifs":[{"data":{"buyer":"PlayerUsername","offer_id":4802},"key":"offer_sold","system_id":null,"type":"text","id":0,"timestamp":1652028161478}]},"instance":2762}
```

One of your agents started infiltrating:
```json
{"type":"incr_update","data":{"player_notifs":[{"data":{"spy":"Minae Leytan","system":"Alnafis"},"key":"infiltration_started","system_id":390,"type":"text","id":0,"timestamp":1649259148656}]},"instance":2713}
```

A player explores a system for the first time:
```json
{"type":"incr_update","data":{"faction_faction_contact":{"contact":{"details":{"explorer":[{"reason":"PlayerUsername","value":1}]},"minimum":[],"value":1},"system_id":486,"receivedAt":1648730186741}},"instance":2713}
```

Sector and system taken
```json
{"type":"incr_update","data":{"global_galaxy_sector":[{"adjacent":[2,3],"centroid":[14.436,12.453],"division":[{"faction":null,"points":4}],"id":0,"name":"Atyoku","owner":"synelle","points":[[18,20],[23,15],[22,12],[17,9],[13,4],[8,8],[6,13],[14,18],[18,20]],"victory_points":1},{"adjacent":[4,5],"centroid":[68.
 883,65.969],"division":[{"faction":null,"points":2},{"faction":"myrmezir","points":1}],"id":1,"name":"Margavak","owner":"myrmezir","points":[[77,68],[76,65],[73,61],[66,58],[62,63],[63,69],[63,71],[69,73],[71,73],[77,68]],"victory_points":1},{"adjacent":[0,6,9],"centroid":[25.644,30.469],"division":[{"faction":
null,"points":1}],"id":2,"name":"Dor-Alnara","owner":null,"points":[[27,29],[21,24],[19,22],[18,20],[14,18],[15,21],[17,27],[20,29],[26,33],[27,37],[33,39],[35,40],[38,38],[34,34],[27,29]],"victory_points":1},{"adjacent":[0,6,7],"centroid":[28.892,17.414],"division":[],"id":3,"name":"Byukan","owner":null,"point
 s":[[29,12],[22,12],[23,15],[26,20],[28,22],[32,23],[35,21],[37,18],[31,17],[29,12]],"victory_points":1},{"adjacent":[1,7,8],"centroid":[67.527,48.525],"division":[{"faction":"myrmezir","points":1}],"id":4,"name":"Tyaniroi","owner":"myrmezir","points":[[63,43],[66,46],[66,53],[66,58],[73,61],[74,56],[73,50],[71
,44],[66,40],[61,38],[56,32],[58,39],[63,43]],"victory_points":1},{"adjacent":[1,8,9],"centroid":[56.091,64.514],"division":[{"faction":"myrmezir","points":2},{"faction":null,"points":1}],"id":5,"name":"Asharia","owner":"myrmezir","points":[[59,69],[63,69],[62,63],[59,61],[50,59],[50,62],[51,68],[59,69]],"victo
 ry_points":1},{"adjacent":[2,3,7,9],"centroid":[34.965,29.316],"division":[],"id":6,"name":"Lum Hen","owner":null,"points":[[35,21],[32,23],[31,26],[34,34],[38,38],[39,35],[37,29],[35,21]],"victory_points":2},{"adjacent":[3,4,6],"centroid":[44.781,28.53],"division":[{"faction":null,"points":2}],"id":7,"name":"M
 agoth","owner":null,"points":[[58,39],[56,32],[52,27],[49,29],[45,26],[44,25],[40,19],[37,18],[35,21],[37,29],[43,34],[49,35],[51,32],[54,36],[58,39]],"victory_points":1},{"adjacent":[4,5,9],"centroid":[57.379,52.478],"division":[{"faction":null,"points":2}],"id":8,"name":"Covaris","owner":null,"points":[[59,61
],[59,59],[59,52],[61,53],[66,46],[63,43],[60,46],[55,48],[51,54],[50,59],[59,61]],"victory_points":2},{"adjacent":[2,5,6,8],"centroid":[42.484,49.593],"division":[{"faction":null,"points":2}],"id":9,"name":"Senteya","owner":null,"points":[[40,54],[42,55],[45,56],[49,63],[51,68],[50,62],[50,59],[51,54],[45,53],
 [44,46],[45,44],[38,38],[35,40],[36,46],[40,54]],"victory_points":1}]},"instance":2705}
```

### Chat Message
`chatMessage(message)` - A string of the chat message the user just sent. If your mod returns `true`, then the chat
message will be considered a command message and won't be sent to the player's faction in the game. If your mod returns
`false`, then the message may still be sent to other players, if no other mod returns `true`, either.

An example of how this is used in [Coordinate Jumper Mod](https://github.com/grnt426/RC_Mod_CameraChat):

```text
c alnori wad
```

This mod is looking for chat messages similar to this form, where `c` must be at the beginning of the string. The rest
is interpreted as user input for system and sector name. This mod returns `true` as long as the message at least
matches one of its known command format types. It will return `true` even if it fails to process the command, thus preventing what it knows is a command, but otherwise bad, from spamming other users.

Mod Format
===========
The entry point for a mod must end its filename with `mod.js`. That will be scanned for and automatically loaded.

All mods must, after their class definition, include this line to register themselves as a listener.

```js
window.granite.mods.hooks.push(new MyModClassName());
```

Example Mod
==========
There is an example of what the most basic implementation of a mod that can process the `update` API function provided
inside of `examplemod.js`.

Note, the only lines that CANNOT be changed are the last two at the end. The only exception is the class name,
`MyMod()`, which can be changed to whatever name of the mod is instead.

Future Goals
============

Currently, the API only supports one function, and doesn't allow for clients to perform executions on primitives or data
not exposed through the API. For example, if a mod wanted to change a boolean from true to false, there is no way to
do that without updating `19.js` itself.

Commit message:

Adding a debug function for use with mods to log errors to disk.
I needed to add this to collect error information from players to debug issues in mods.

Updated the README with information about this global function.

README.md, after:

RC Mod API - RCMA
===========
This is a basic implementation of a modding API that allows mods to register themselves as listeners for events. Those
events are then sent to all mods that were loaded. Data from the event is passed to the mod for it to process if needed.

# Installation
## Manual
Copy `hookdispatcher.js` and `19.js` into the `Rising Constellation/dist/main` directory. You will need to replace your
existing `19.js` file.

## Vortex
Vortex is not yet supported, though support is being worked on.

## Hook API

### Update
`update(data)` - sent whenever the game received an update from the RC server. Things like player updates, navarchs sighted,
 a building finished construction, system explored, etc.

The input is a sometimes large JSON. All of them follow this basic format,
```json
{
 "type":"incr_update",
 "instance":2762,
 "data":
  {
   "player_notifs":
    [
     {
      "data":{},
      "key":"",
      "type":"text",
      "timestamp":1652028161478
     }
    ]
  }
}
```

The mod will automatically create the outer field `type`, which defines the payload sent as an incremental update. For 
this API, it will always be `incr_update`. `instance` is the instance ID of the game and is unique for each game. `data`
is what the game actually sent to the client and is stuffed into this field. All the fields within `data` will vary
depending on what kind of event was sent, but most of them seem to have a `data` field, `type`, and `timestamp`. 

Examples of inputs from real games are below.

Another player bought your offer:
```json
{"type":"incr_update","data":{"player_notifs":[{"data":{"buyer":"PlayerUsername","offer_id":4802},"key":"offer_sold","system_id":null,"type":"text","id":0,"timestamp":1652028161478}]},"instance":2762}
```

One of your agents started infiltrating:
```json
{"type":"incr_update","data":{"player_notifs":[{"data":{"spy":"Minae Leytan","system":"Alnafis"},"key":"infiltration_started","system_id":390,"type":"text","id":0,"timestamp":1649259148656}]},"instance":2713}
```

A player explores a system for the first time:
```json
{"type":"incr_update","data":{"faction_faction_contact":{"contact":{"details":{"explorer":[{"reason":"PlayerUsername","value":1}]},"minimum":[],"value":1},"system_id":486,"receivedAt":1648730186741}},"instance":2713}
```

Sector and system taken
```json
{"type":"incr_update","data":{"global_galaxy_sector":[{"adjacent":[2,3],"centroid":[14.436,12.453],"division":[{"faction":null,"points":4}],"id":0,"name":"Atyoku","owner":"synelle","points":[[18,20],[23,15],[22,12],[17,9],[13,4],[8,8],[6,13],[14,18],[18,20]],"victory_points":1},{"adjacent":[4,5],"centroid":[68.
 883,65.969],"division":[{"faction":null,"points":2},{"faction":"myrmezir","points":1}],"id":1,"name":"Margavak","owner":"myrmezir","points":[[77,68],[76,65],[73,61],[66,58],[62,63],[63,69],[63,71],[69,73],[71,73],[77,68]],"victory_points":1},{"adjacent":[0,6,9],"centroid":[25.644,30.469],"division":[{"faction":
null,"points":1}],"id":2,"name":"Dor-Alnara","owner":null,"points":[[27,29],[21,24],[19,22],[18,20],[14,18],[15,21],[17,27],[20,29],[26,33],[27,37],[33,39],[35,40],[38,38],[34,34],[27,29]],"victory_points":1},{"adjacent":[0,6,7],"centroid":[28.892,17.414],"division":[],"id":3,"name":"Byukan","owner":null,"point
 s":[[29,12],[22,12],[23,15],[26,20],[28,22],[32,23],[35,21],[37,18],[31,17],[29,12]],"victory_points":1},{"adjacent":[1,7,8],"centroid":[67.527,48.525],"division":[{"faction":"myrmezir","points":1}],"id":4,"name":"Tyaniroi","owner":"myrmezir","points":[[63,43],[66,46],[66,53],[66,58],[73,61],[74,56],[73,50],[71
,44],[66,40],[61,38],[56,32],[58,39],[63,43]],"victory_points":1},{"adjacent":[1,8,9],"centroid":[56.091,64.514],"division":[{"faction":"myrmezir","points":2},{"faction":null,"points":1}],"id":5,"name":"Asharia","owner":"myrmezir","points":[[59,69],[63,69],[62,63],[59,61],[50,59],[50,62],[51,68],[59,69]],"victo
 ry_points":1},{"adjacent":[2,3,7,9],"centroid":[34.965,29.316],"division":[],"id":6,"name":"Lum Hen","owner":null,"points":[[35,21],[32,23],[31,26],[34,34],[38,38],[39,35],[37,29],[35,21]],"victory_points":2},{"adjacent":[3,4,6],"centroid":[44.781,28.53],"division":[{"faction":null,"points":2}],"id":7,"name":"M
 agoth","owner":null,"points":[[58,39],[56,32],[52,27],[49,29],[45,26],[44,25],[40,19],[37,18],[35,21],[37,29],[43,34],[49,35],[51,32],[54,36],[58,39]],"victory_points":1},{"adjacent":[4,5,9],"centroid":[57.379,52.478],"division":[{"faction":null,"points":2}],"id":8,"name":"Covaris","owner":null,"points":[[59,61
],[59,59],[59,52],[61,53],[66,46],[63,43],[60,46],[55,48],[51,54],[50,59],[59,61]],"victory_points":2},{"adjacent":[2,5,6,8],"centroid":[42.484,49.593],"division":[{"faction":null,"points":2}],"id":9,"name":"Senteya","owner":null,"points":[[40,54],[42,55],[45,56],[49,63],[51,68],[50,62],[50,59],[51,54],[45,53],
 [44,46],[45,44],[38,38],[35,40],[36,46],[40,54]],"victory_points":1}]},"instance":2705}
```

### Chat Message
`chatMessage(message)` - A string of the chat message the user just sent. If your mod returns `true`, then the chat
message will be considered a command message and won't be sent to the player's faction in the game. If your mod returns
`false`, then the message may still be sent to other players, if no other mod returns `true`, either.

An example of how this is used in [Coordinate Jumper Mod](https://github.com/grnt426/RC_Mod_CameraChat):

```text
c alnori wad
```

This mod is looking for chat messages similar to this form, where `c` must be at the beginning of the string. The rest
is interpreted as user input for system and sector name. This mod returns `true` as long as the message at least
matches one of its known command format types. It will return `true` even if it fails to process the command, thus preventing what it knows is a command, but otherwise bad, from spamming other users.

## Utility API

All the below are found within the global object `window.granite`. They are generally available and ready to use as soon as your mod object is initialized (meaning, within the mod's constructor).

## Debug
`window.granite.debug(message, level=INFO)` - If possible, will write log information to a log file, `rc_mod.log`,
inside the main directory. 

`level`, if set, may be anything within the `window.granite.levels` map, such as DEBUG, INFO, or ERROR.

## Levels
`window.granite.levels` - a mapping of logger levels to use. DEBUG, INFO, or ERROR. For use in the Debug utility
function.

Mod Format
===========
The entry point for a mod must end its filename with `mod.js`. That will be scanned for and automatically loaded.

All mods must, after their class definition, include this line to register themselves as a listener.

```js
window.granite.mods.hooks.push(new MyModClassName());
```

Example Mod
==========
There is an example of what the most basic implementation of a mod that can process the `update` API function provided
inside of `examplemod.js`.

Note, the only lines that CANNOT be changed are the last two at the end. The only exception is the class name,
`MyMod()`, which can be changed to whatever name of the mod is instead.

Future Goals
============

Currently, the API only supports one function, and doesn't allow for clients to perform executions on primitives or data
not exposed through the API. For example, if a mod wanted to change a boolean from true to false, there is no way to
do that without updating `19.js` itself.
